---
path: "/boardMems"
---
<div class='wrapMems'>
  <member profile='tracy.jpg' family='tracyFamily.jpg' name='Tracy' role='President' email='president'></member>
  <member profile='nick.jpg' family='nickFamily.jpg' name='Nick' role='Vice President' email='vicepresident'></member>
</div>
<div class='wrapMems'>
  <member profile='drew.jpg' family='drewFamily.jpg' name='Drew' role='Treasurer' email='treasurer'></member>
  <member profile='amanda.jpg' family='amandaFamily.jpg' name='Amanda' role='Marketing' email='marketing'></member>
</div>
<blurb family='tracyFamily.jpg'>Tracy is the Mom of a little girl with SDS and is driven to boost the funding for research. She holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Math and English Education and a Master’s Degree in Special Education with a concentration on the gifted learner. She excelled in teaching, earning several awards and recognitions, which she attributes to a strong work ethic and drive. Currently, Tracy is a Homemaker dedicated to her family and growing the Research Fund. She says, "I am confident we can help all those touched by SDS find their best way to support SDS families and research for a cure. In the core of my being, I believe this is within our reach and the time is now."</blurb>
<blurb family='nickFamily.jpg'>Nick brings a strong set of leadership skills to SDS Research Fund as a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point. Nick proudly served our country for six years as an armor officer in the Army before entering the corporate sector. He has worked for Lubrizol as an account manager and was apart of the Winsupply owners/ management development program before joining Spectrum Paint Company in 2017. His niece, who has SDS, is his motivation for serving on the board in the hopes of finding a cure.</blurb>
<blurb family='drewFamily.jpg'>Drew brings a variety of skills to SDS Research Fund Board of Directors. As a former television meteorologist, Drew is an expert in community relations. He has served on the Friends of the Topeka Zoo Board of Directors and is a current employee of Thrivent Financial. Drew has a Bachelor's Degree in Soil, Environmental, and Atmospheric Science with a minor in Mathematics. He has a strong background in financial literacy and management as well as purposeful stewardship. Drew says, "I'm excited to be part of something that is going to bring hope to families."</blurb>
<blurb family='amandaFamily.jpg'>Amanda brings a fresh and creative energy to SDS Research Fund. She is enthusiastic in all things social media and has extensive experience with various digital and graphic design platforms. Amanda served as the Editor-In-Chief of her college newspaper and earned a Bachelor's Degree in Mass Media, Elementary Education, and Secondary Education and also a Master's Degree in School Counseling. She is currently teaching third grade; her experience includes work with the middle school demographic, as well. Amanda says, "Working with kids in the classroom on a daily basis has allowed me to more strongly realize the impact that health has on students as a whole. The passion that drives my work ensures that our future generations have every opportunity to succeed, and I look forward to using that same passion to help give children with SDS this same opportunity."</blurb>