---
title: From the Outside Looking In
author: Christin Barkemeyer
date: "2018-03-01T12:00:00.000Z"
---

<res-img src='0.jpg' alt='Christin and her family' class='mainImg'></res-img> 

<p>Becoming a mother was and is the most humbling, terrifying, and beautiful experience of my life. My children are the most precious thing in the world to me, and I would do anything to keep them safe and healthy. My friend whose daughter has SDS is no different. This is her story, through my eyes. It is my perspective of a very tough situation, and I can only hope that I do her story justice.</p>

<p>My friend and I had been expecting at the same time. My daughter was born about three months before hers. I had visions of us hanging out together with our new babies, seeing them grow up together, enjoying our time together. We lived not far from each other, taught at the same school, and loved doing yoga together. We were great friends, and I was looking forward to watching our children's friendship bloom.</p>

<p>I remember the day that my friend’s baby was born. I was so excited to meet her. She came a bit early, but not early enough for worry. My husband, daughter, and I headed to the hospital to meet the new baby and congratulate the mom and dad. We knew how exciting the experience was and how scary it was, having had just experienced it a few short months before. Leaving the hospital with a baby just a few days old was more than a tad bit daunting. As we went into the hospital room, everything felt normal. My friend had that new mom glow to her, she looked beautifully happy. I’ll never forget what she said to me right away, though. “Christin. She’s so small.” The baby girl, who was only a couple weeks early, was a tiny four pounds, eleven ounces. Because she was so tiny, we didn’t get to hold her. I understood on a surface level, but not the deeper understanding that I have since gained about the situation. We left the hospital not really thinking anything was terribly wrong, but knowing that there was more to what was going on than we could grasp.</p>

<p>The next few months were a blur. I was busy taking care of my own infant and working a full- time job, and while we did see my friend and her family, it was not as much as it probably should have been. I remember her talking about tests and such that the baby had to endure, but overall she kept pretty private about what was going on, and I admittedly didn’t know how to ask the right questions. We did drift apart a little during that time.</p>

<blockquote>"They will change because they have to; it is imperative for their child’s survival that they change.<hr />...Embrace the change and ask what you can do to help. Being there for your friend or family member and showing your support is probably all they need."</blockquote>

<p>Once my friend was back to work, I remember a candid conversation I had with her about daycare. As most working parents know, finding daycare for an infant is a terrible feat that I wouldn’t wish on my worst enemy. Figuring out who is going to assume your role as a parent for eight hours a day is horribly difficult. In my friend’s situation, it was even more difficult. I remember her saying it was hard to find someone who would take care of her sick little girl. That word, “sick” stuck in my head. Either in that conversation or soon after, my friend divulged that they had taken the baby to the ER where she had to get a blood transfusion. That’s really when I realized the gravity of the situation. The baby was sick.</p>

<p>They didn’t know what was wrong for a while, but they finally determined that she had Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome. I, of course, had no idea what that was or what it entailed, until my friend explained it. Hearing that individuals with SDS have an average life expectancy of 35, that they would have to take their daughter to the hospital when she had a fever, or that an illness or infection to so many of us could be a life-threatening situation for her, it was all a lot to take in.</p>

<p>If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would try to be there more for my friend that first year. I truly didn’t (and still don’t fully) know what her and her family had to go through. I admit that on many occasions being around them, especially when the girls were babies, made me feel guilty. Guilty that my daughter was healthy and thriving. That while my daughter was in clothes sizes right along with her age, my friend’s baby was drastically behind because she wasn’t absorbing the proper nutrients she needed. With this guilt, though, I also have felt grateful. Grateful to be able to witness the drive and the passion and the inherent “mama bear-ness” in my friend. To see her little girl grow and learn and thrive. If anyone is able to tackle SDS with all her strength and will, it’s my friend. God knew what He was doing when He made her a mother to a baby girl with SDS.</p>

<p>My advice to those dealing with SDS: don’t be afraid to keep your friends and family in the loop. Chances are, they want to be helpful but don’t know how to be. Even if that just means you tell them to continue as normal, communication is key.</p>

<p>For those with friends or family who are fighting SDS: know that your friend or family member will change. They will change because they have to; it is imperative for their child’s survival that they change. They will be different than you. You do not have to be a medical expert, a caregiver, and an advocate like they do. And that’s ok. Different is beautiful, right? Embrace the change and ask what you can do to help. Being there for your friend or family member and showing your support is probably all they need.</p>

<p>Knowing that my friend’s daughter has SDS doesn’t really change anything for us. We still hang out together with our little ones, watch them grow up together, and enjoy our time together. We just know that we have to be a little more conscientious if one of us is sick, and we get to participate in SDS fundraisers. Those are just new aspects of our friendship. As all humans do, we’ve adapted to the change. It really is the least we can do.</p>

<author src='author.jpg'>
  <p>This or That: Beach or Snow?</p>
  <p>Answer: Beach </p>
  <p>Would You Rather...</p>
  <p>Take classes the rest of your life or never learn a new skill again? Answer: Take classes the rest of my life</p>
  <p>Favorite Cereal: Lucky Charms</p>
  <p>People are surprised to learn that... "I lived in China for a year teaching English to college students."</p>
</author>