---
title: Yoga & Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome
author: Sarah Fortier
date: "2018-05-01T12:00:00.000Z"
---

<p>Yoga postures that help stimulate the pancreas & abdominal organs</p>

<p>With Pancreatic Insufficiency being a lead player in children with Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome, some yoga asanas can provide a massaging of the abdominal organs to help cleanse and boost efficacy in areas such as the pancreas. According to Julie Gumestad, a Physical Therapist from Pacific University & writer for Yoga Journal with over 14 years PT & yoga expertise, “Twisting poses help restore the spine’s range of motion, cleanse organs, & and stimulate circulation”. These poses, such as Vrksasana (Tree Pose) & Dhanurasana (Bow Pose), massage and tone the abdominal organs, like the pancreas and liver, and stimulate the nervous and circulatory system. Studies have also confirmed that practicing certain asanas such as Ardha Matsyendrasana (half-twist pose) combined with Halasana (plough pose) squeezes and compresses the abdomen and helps to further stimulate the pancreas.</p>

<p>I have highlighted a few yoga asanas that help balance the functioning of the endocrine
system below.</p>

<wrapcenter>
  <res-img src='1.jpg' alt='VRKSASANA (TREE POSE)'></res-img>
  <p>VRKSASANA (TREE POSE) Stimulates endocrine system</p>
</wrapcenter>

<wrapcenter>
  <res-img src='2.jpg' alt='DHANURASANA (BOW POSE)'></res-img>
  <p>DHANURASANA (BOW POSE) Massages abdominal organs</p>
</wrapcenter>

<wrapcenter>
  <res-img src='3.jpg' alt='HALASANA (PLOW POSE)'></res-img>
  <p>HALASANA (PLOW POSE) Stimulate the pancreas</p>
</wrapcenter>

<wrapcenter>
  <res-img src='4.jpg' alt='MATSYENDRASANA (TWIST POSE)'></res-img>
  <p>MATSYENDRASANA (TWIST POSE) Cleanses organs</p>
</wrapcenter>

<p>Indian Yoga Master, B.K.S. Iyengar describes twists as a “squeeze-and-soak” action: The
organs are compressed during a twist, pushing out blood filled with metabolic by-products and
toxins. When we release the twist, fresh blood flows in, carrying oxygen and the building blocks
for tissue healing. So from a physiological standpoint, twists stimulate circulation and have a
cleansing and refreshing effect on the torso organs and associated glands. -Yoga Journal</p>

<p>Graphics from Think Fun Yoga Spinner Yoga Game for Kids</p>

<author src='author.jpg'>
  <p>Sarah is a certified yoga instructor with certifications in Kids Yoga and Prenatal yoga.</p>
</author>